Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to focus on designing the world that we are about to create and making sure
as we see here we constrain our scope.
So first of all it's time to map out your scene and what you'd like to include.
So this is a chance for you to go wild and nice and wide with your ideas you don't have to follow along
with what I'm doing.
In fact I would encourage you to do your own thing and apply what you've learned in the lectures across
to it.
It's time to dump all of those ideas down what do you want to make.
And I will reiterate myself here.
If you are new to blender keep the projects small if you want to challenge or this is your second time
round.
Then of course increase the scope of its work.
Work out what parts you need to have in your scene.
This is a critical thing here.
Start thinking about how we're going to build up the room that you're making or the building that you're
making and think carefully about what parts you need to have in your scene.
Recommend a system like trailer for tracking your model's progress as well.
And we'll have a look at that in more detail as we start using it categorizing your models is always
a useful thing to do.
So it's not an exhaustive list and names can vary.
Madness is this is important here at terrain so I like categorizing terrain as all things natural but
you have things like props which we'll get to in the moment which can be included as terrain props or
structure and architecture props.
And we'll see how that applies in a moment.
So structure might be walls might be pillars.
This is the sort of way that we're progressing with our scene at the moment.
However you might want to situate your your church or whatever you're making within a certain terrain
you've got to think about these things and what you're going to create.
We're not focused on characters in this section so but there is a category that would be characters
vehicles those sorts of things and props.
This is one of the biggest broadest things that you can possibly have.
Props are basically everything else that clutters up a scene so debris furniture rocks mobile phones
sat in the corner cutlery that wherever you happen to be modeling the props are really what makes the
scene come alive.
So it is important to think about what extra little bits you're going to include in your scene that
really starts to make the scene feel much better there are a few things that you can add to a scene
like let's say lighting so if I want to add some torches or candles to my church that I'm making that's
going to have a much greater impact than if I just added some dirt on the floor for instance.
Now before we go ahead and jump into the challenge I'd like to show you first how to import an image
into blender and then we'll get over into the challenge.
Okay so I've got an empty scene here I'm going to get rid of my default cube and I'm going to go shift
in a to add a new object to the scene and if I go down there's now an option called image.
This is something you used to have to add in days gone by and we've got two options.
It really doesn't matter which one you pick at this stage we're going to use it as a reference.
So references fine background is also found it really doesn't matter which one you pick.
Now you've got a new file explorer built into blender 2.8 one is much easier to navigate than it was
before so I've downloaded a photo that I've taken and I presume that's going to be this one here and
I'm not quite sure which one of these it is in fact it's not in that folder at all so let me go to the
appropriate folder.
Here we go.
So this is the image that I've imported and you can see here it's been added as per the view that we
had when we added it.
So I'm going to go into the properties panel and just sets all of these values here to zero and then
we can start scaling this up to an appropriate size plop a cube down make sure we've got roughly the
right order of size.
Now of course this is a rough sketch so we use it as such we don't use it as gospel.
Haha pardon the pun.
And that's the way we import a image into blender in order to use.
I really want to highlight here how rough and ready this sketches I've done it deliberately like this.
I've got a pen and a sheet of lined paper to really try to inspire you to use different techniques for
sketching down your ideas and never being held back by the fetch.
You might not have the ideal tools in which to create your work.
Okay so let's hop on over to our challenge Okay so your challenge.
I'd like you as you probably guessed to grab a pen and paper and sketch or even block a model out in
idea.
So getting that rough idea down.
I really don't care what tool you use you use the one that you're most comfortable with and perhaps
the quickest one would be getting a pen and paper out but if you want to practice your blender skills
and just do some block modelling in Blender that's absolutely fine as well.
One thing that a sketch perhaps cannot convey that the 3D world does is a sense of depth and space.
So that's one thing I've got my sketch you've seen it.
But how's it gonna look in 3D.
Well that's something we can work on.
Coming up and then go ahead take a scan or a photo of your sketch import that into blender which is
what I've just shown you and import it as a background image or a reference.
It really doesn't matter which one you pick and then share your model list and you'll see an idea I
really want you to hold yourself to account with your fellow students and make sure you keep it realistic
as well so share the models you want to make and you'll see an idea.
And that way the community will be able to come back and say oh that's a brilliant idea or have you
thought about this.
And if you are giving feedback to people don't just say Oh that's awesome.
Tell them why it's awesome or I don't think that's going to work.
But tell them why it's can not work in your mind that's always a great way of giving feedback.
Remember not just the statement of how you feel about it but why.
How do you qualify why it's good bad.
How things could be improved.
Suppose a video now and give us a go.
Hello everybody and welcome back.
How are you guys getting on.
I hope you have shared your model list and seen idea over in the discussions.
I'm looking forward to seeing them.
Remember to comment on others as well.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.